# Using-CSS-to-Create-a-GIF-Animation
A method of using a CSS animation to generate the content for a GIF animation

In the web comic story one of the events has our protagonist (that is creative writing speak for our hero) pilot his shuttlecraft to a landing port on an asteroid called Factory. I wanted this mise en scene to be a GIF animation among the otherwise static comic illustrations to emphasize our tale’s milieu. Only the creation of the GIF remained.

Now a GIF is rather like a movie or other animated images where a sequence of otherwise static images are presented at such a rate as to give the appearance of smooth motion. Generally GIF images have a lower frame rate than the tens of frames per second rate of “true movies” like MPG files, but even a relatively short animation can use a significant number of frames. This animation of the shuttlecraft landing is about 125 frames, certainly not a large number in some respects but it would be a bit of work to “draw” or generate each required frame image by some manual means (like Photoshop for example) and then “stacking” those images in their sequence of display.

I have played with quite a few GIF images and the amount of effort required to craft a lot of similar images by any manual method is a rather uninviting “job of work”, especially for an inveterately lazy sort as I have been described. Given this circumstance I determined to automate the process somewhat. The method I pursued was to write up a CSS animation program to display the motion components, and once that result was satisfactory I saved a screen capture of the animated page display to create the desired GIF file. This allowed me to manually create a lot fewer images and use the automata to replicate them as required. Fortunately the moving objects in our GIF only require changes in size and position to manifest the required animation and both of these actions are easy to accomplish with CSS and a bit of JavaScript for timing.
